---
layout: story
category: story
title:  "The Last Rose"
date: 2021-03-31
published: false
---

Cemeteries: the final gathering place of human life, and the last line in every story. Today was my grandfather's turn to occupy his place in the ground.
	Death always sucks, but I guess his life was better than most. He was a prominent leader in the civil rights movement, and the token achievement of my family. Even my second cousins down in Georgia were flying in for his funeral. I'd never met them but, even before I learned that they were just like the rest of my family, I didn't really care to.
	I was walking past the main entrance for the second time. The girl was still there with her vacant stare, the forged black gates towering above her. A box of bouquets sat at her feet with a small metal tin, but she didn't seem to be paying them much attention.
	I was trying to figure out what her deal was when I got distracted and tripped on the flat ground, making enough noise to draw attention to myself.
	"You know the cemetery doesn't open for another hour, right?" She asked with a chuckle.
	"Yeah, I know." I said after regaining my balance.
	She looked skeptically at me. "Then, what are you doing?"
	"What are you doing here?" I questioned back, all of a sudden feeling defensive.
	"You're here for a funeral aren't you?" She was quick. "Pacing around the block a hundred times is not going to make the pain go away you know. Believe me."
	After a couple false starts, I said. "I just wanted to walk around, alone." Then asked again, if just to change the subject. "And you? Why are you here?"
	She looked down at her box of roses and flashed a bemused expression. Her head turned at the sound of a car approaching. I followed her gaze to a hearse turning the corner. It must have been my grandfather.
	"Hey." She blurted out. "Can you watch my things for a minute?" She asked as she rushed towards the gate. "I'll be right back. I promise."
	"Oh—Ok, but I—"
	The gates opened, the hearse drove in, and she slipped through just before they clanged shut again. I watched as the car drove up to the swinging glass doors of the funeral home, and the men unloaded his ebony casket.
	Grandpa Ben was the only family member I could ever handle being around, and in that moment it fully hit me. He'd be in that box the rest of the day, for the rest of my life; for every family party we'll ever have. I hated it when he couldn't make it to family stuff. The other adults would always talk about him like his life was already over, and all that was left were his stories to beat us over the head with. It was kind of fucked up. They were always going on about how us kids should be more like he was, as if none of us were worthy of the family name—least of all me. But it was him, out of everyone, who never told me how broken I was. I always assumed he was just keeping his thoughts to himself, but we got closer before he died, and now I think he just didn't see me that way. The only problem I ever had with him was when he'd tell you to be unapologetically yourself, as if the rest of us were walking around being fake.
	I was distracted when a hooded man passed by and walked off with a couple roses.
	"Wait! Hey! Those aren't free!" I yelled.
	The man started to walk faster, then broke into a run. I called out again but by the time I did, he had already rounded the corner. I looked down at the box, realizing that I didn't know how much she was selling them for. But the box was blank, and the tin, to my surprise, was empty—she hadn't sold a single rose. I slumped against the gate, and dragged the box into my arms.
	This wasn't exactly how I imagined my time grieving away from my family. But I still had time before they'd show up, and at least nobody would ask me what I was doing now.
	I tried to think about the good parts, the stories of him my mom always used to tell. But I couldn't get past the memory of her condescension. Even when I wanted to hear her stories, I just couldn't pay attention when she talked like that.
	I wrestled with my thoughts for what felt like hours, but the gates were still locked, and the girl was nowhere in sight. I hate having to sit still, so I looked for something to do. There was nobody around except for the staff inside the funeral home, and the cars driving by were few and far between. I moved the box into my lap and counted fourteen roses: five in each bouquet, except for one which had four. I looked up at the security cameras perched on the fence, and the excessive number of signs. I counted fifteen cameras on just that street—four of them around the entrance—and thirteen signs! With warnings ranging from "No Trespassing" to "Officers on site." It all seemed a bit extreme. Who the hell would want to break into a cemetery anyway?
	I was staring at the buildings across the street when my phone rang. I knew it was a mistake to answer, but I guess boredom got the best of me.
	"Hey Mom."
	"Micheal, where in God's name are you? We're leaving for your grandfather's funeral soon, and your cousins want to meet you."
	"I'm here. I just came early. I'll see you—"
	"You're at the cemetery?" She was upset now. "And what in the hell are you wearing? Did you plan on coming back to get your suit? Or do I need to take care of everything for you?"
	"Sir. I need you to put down the phone." A firm voice commanded.
	I turned to see two uniformed officers walking towards me. "I need to call you back."
	"Micheal H. Smith—" My mother started.
	"Boy! The phone, now." He yelled, losing patience.
	"—Is that a cop I hear? What on God's green earth did you—"
	Click.
	I scrambled to my feet. "Hello officers. How can I help you?" Grandpa Ben always reminded me to cooperate. To never give them a reason to get upset.
	"Are you aware you're breaking the law?"
	"Uhm," I hesitated, "how—"
	"Loitering."
	"Oh, no, I'm not loitering." I said, looking down at the box beside me.
	"Peddling flowers outside a place of mourning. That sounds like disturbing the peace to me. And interfering with the free passage of pedestrians. Wouldn't you agree, Officer Jones?" He said, turning to his partner.
	I was suddenly very nervous, and confused—a real shitty combination. "I'm sorry Officer. I didn't know. But, these—these aren't my flowers. I promise. I'm just here because—this girl—these are hers." I was sounding like an idiot, but my mouth kept running anyway. "She asked me to watch them, but—she'll be right back."
	The officer took a second to size me up. "Oh yeah? Is that who you were just talking to? Huh?" He turned to his partner again. "Jones, do you see a girl anywhere?"
	"No sir, I do not." His partner replied.
	My phone rang. It was my mom again.
	"Boy! Put your damn phone away! I won't ask you again." He huffed as I quickly shoved my phone back into my pocket. "Now, where is this girl?"
	"She went inside, Sir." Why the fuck did I say that?
	"Oh yeah? What, did she fly over the twenty foot gates? Or did you two break into government property?" Without waiting for my response, as if the truth was obvious, he continued. "You're coming with me." He said, then turned to Officer Jones. "Find the girl. I'll see you back at the station."
	I tried to speak, but for once, words escaped me. I had been arrested before, but usually it was for something I actually did. Petty theft or disturbing the peace, or as my mom called it, being a delinquent like my father. And now, the ONE time I was doing something nice, this shit happens. Man, I was really starting to resent that girl.
	He traded my phone for handcuffs, and shoved me in the back of his cruiser. My phone buzzed in the front seat all the way to the station. My mom was probably livid.
	"I promise, this is all just a misunderstanding. I was there for my grandfather's funeral."
	Through the bars between us, he looked up at the rear view mirror and scanned my ripped jeans and Black Sabbath shirt. On his face was a bold display of skepticism, bordering on disgust. It seemed the visuals weren't exactly working in my favor. He took his sweet time to respond.
	"Boy, what do you think all those cameras are for? And why do you think me and Jonesy back there spend our nights circling a field of dead people?" This time he pretended to wait for an answer. "To keep sick fucks like you and your little girlfriend from getting in." Then came that silent stare adults give you when they want a "life lesson" to "sink in."
	Why did I always get the shitty cops? The ones with a voice in their head telling them they were always right, without exception. Must be fucking nice. It made it worse that I didn't know who to believe. Hell, that girl could be a grave robber. How would I know? But in broad daylight? It didn't make much sense. Before I could respond to his stupid question, he started again.
	His face lit up like he thought of something clever to say. "And what did you plan to do to those graves once you were inside? You know what, I don't even want to know."

They searched me from head to toe, but couldn't find any evidence to prove I was breaking in. What a surprise. The cells were still somehow full from the night before, but they threw me in anyway.
	I was stuck in one place again, for real this time, waiting for something I had no control over. I tried asking the officers that would occasionally pass what the hell was going on, but they didn't even turn to acknowledge me. I guess I'd been locked in here enough times now that they just assumed I was guilty of something. It was kind of like being at my family parties, except nobody was pitying me, or trying to fix my apparently broken soul. So I guess it was a little better in a way.
	I waited, and waited, watching the clock on the wall in anticipation, as the minute hand inched past every tick, one by one. At some point I saw the other officer—Jones—come in panting, with cheeks red. But he wasn't with the girl. He was carrying a tray of coffee, which he brought over to a group of officers huddled in conversation. Over the next hour or so, I watched as new bodies came in faster than the overnighters were being processed. But like a magician's hat, they somehow kept finding more space in those cramped cells.
	Grandpa Ben would tell me stories of times he got arrested, and I always loved hearing them. He made it feel so exciting, and meaningful, like he was doing something good being locked away like that. But as I sat there in the corner, looking down—away from the thousand other eyes—with my back against cold bars, I felt none of that glory. Even if there was some heroic reason I had been thrown in there, I would have been too distracted by the horrid mix of smells and the blinding fluorescent lights. All I wanted was some time alone to mourn before his funeral. Before my family grieved and prayed loud enough to drown out their thoughts, and mine.
	Looking back, I think I loved his stories of jail because they were the only thing that made him seem human. A welcome break from the shame propagated to us through speeches about responsibility to your family and community, perseverance in the face of opposition, and what it meant to be a man. To my parents I was none of those things—something they loved to remind me of.
	I had forgotten where I was, lost in thoughts of my grandpa, when my mothers voice pulled me crashing back to earth. Her powerfully petite figure was barreling over, accompanied by an officer carrying keys. I could see it on her face immediately: she was ashamed to be there, and pissed at me, of course. The officer gave me a look, sputtered "hey you," and told everyone to step back—as if there was enough room to move. She didn't say anything while he unlocked the cell, and barely looked at me as I walked out.
	The second he handed me my things, my mother marched towards the door without warning. On my way out I saw the cop that brought me in, looking annoyed and filling out some paperwork at the front desk.
	"What did you do to the girl?" I hollered at him as I passed.
	He looked around as if he didn't recognize me. I stopped and stared him down, but before he had a chance to remember, my mother stomped back in and dragged me to the car.
	The pregnant silence continued almost the entire way back to the cemetery. She didn't ask how I was feeling or how I ended up in that holding cell. Maybe the cops told her that crazy ass story and she believed it. Or maybe she was too scared to know the truth.
	When I was a kid she wanted to hear every detail when I got in trouble. Maybe it was her way of trying to fix me, to make sure I didn’t go down the wrong path. As I got older she just got more uncomfortable each time I’d tell her of my misfortunes or mistakes. And I guess at some point she finally gave up, and lost interest in ever hearing my side of the story. Every once in a while she mumbled things like "how could you? Today, out of all days?" Or my favorite, just "seriously?" They sounded more like rhetorical questions though, so I tried to keep my mouth shut.
	It wasn't until we were pulling into the cemetery that she asked me if I had something prepared.
	"What do you mean?" I asked, half distracted by the box of roses, still sitting on the sidewalk next to the now open gates. "Like, I have to say something about grandpa?"
	"All your cousins have a speech prepared. You might be too, if you didn't go off and get yourself in trouble."
	They planned the memorial a week ago, and just NOW she decides to tell me?
	"Do I have to?" I regretted the words before I even opened my mouth. They just slipped out, like every other stupid thing I say.
	I didn't think her face could get more red, but it did, and she was silent. I dropped my head in frustration, seeing I was still in my normal clothes. Great, I thought, I'm going to look AND sound like an idiot. "Did you bring my suit at least?"
	The car jolted to a stop just as we were entering the gates, and she threw her arm across my face. "GET OUT!"
	I threw my body against the door—half expecting her to slap me—and grabbed the handle.
	"Is THIS what you think I wanted to do on the day of my fathers funeral? Run around after you like you're a goddamn baby! Do you know how many police stations I checked before finding your stupid ass?"
	I got out as quickly as I could, and snuck into the funeral hall while she went to park the car. A few disapproving eyes turned to me as I swung open the large glass door. I walked as quietly as I could to the back of the room, but the heavy door slammed shut behind me—much louder than I expected. Everyone stopped and looked. The speaker paused mid-sentence. I slumped against the back wall, like it would somehow prevent me from being seen. A moment later the speaker continued.
	After everyone turned back to the front of the room, I stood and scanned the crowd. It took me a while to realize why I did. I was looking for someone who was in my view the whole time, on that stage in that case of polished ebony. It didn’t feel like he was in there though. Just felt more like a symbol of him, or like a prop in some tragic movie. My mom and her siblings didn't believe in having an open casket. Apparently they thought it would taint their image of him. I wish they didn't do that, so I could see him, just one more time.
	Instead I resorted to staring out the glass walls for the girl I met that morning. The yard was now littered with families huddled around the graves. None of them looked like her.
	My mother came in with my suit in hand, and wondered how she was going to yell at me here, in a room so quiet. Thankfully she didn't. She just hung it on a nearby hook, flashed me her classic death glare, and joined the ceremony. The speaker finished just as she found a seat. Clearly that was my fault too, and warranted another look of disapproval, which she promptly delivered.
	Everyone left for the burial immediately, and I went to grab my suit. Maybe I could get a last look at him before they took him out to be buried. I went to the bathroom and changed as fast as I could, almost ripping the stupid pants—why are nice clothes always so fragile, and uncomfortable? But the funeral staff were already carrying him out by the time I was done. Just my fucking luck. I almost went to ask anyway, but if my family saw I’d probably be grounded for life. So instead I slipped out the back door.
	Clouds had taken over the sky. My eyes darted around in desperate procrastination. I guess I really didn't want to go to the burial yet. I noticed a group of dark figures off to the left, huddled beneath a black pop up tent. The casket was on a stand, next to a pile of dirt and a hole in the ground, surrounded by that neon green plastic grass. The rain slapped against the plastic canopy and slipped off the edge, forming a wall of water around them. I stepped out from the overhang and decided instead to turn right.
	It's what they would have expected of me anyway.

Most of the grave markers were humble: small tokens of the life they represented. Further off, in the center of the yard though, were a cluster of towering stones that dwarfed the rest. They stood like a metropolis over a crumbling countryside. I continued towards them and all the while kept my eye out for the girl, whose name I still didn't know. I wondered why my grandfather wasn't going to be buried where the rest of the important people seemed to lay. It only took reading a few before I realized that all the names were accompanied by other kinds of accomplishments, in the high reaches of government or for some disruptive technological advance.
	The rain had soaked through my jacket by that point, and with my mind on grandpa Ben, I wandered back towards his grave. I weaved through the grieving families sitting in front of fresh bouquets and carved stone. A father kneeling with his arms around his wife and daughter, a mother with her two teenagers, and many more who came alone, all sat in honor of the deceased.
	I was watching the back fence when I noticed her, face down like she was praying or reaching underground. Fresh mounds of dirt melted to mud around her feet. I wasn't sure it was her at first—with her clothes a few shades darker, and her hair tied in a bun. What was she still doing here? And why hadn't she gone back for her roses?
	My anger at her turned to guilt as I approached and heard her cries. There was a plaque on the ground in front of her with the name "Benjamin Booker" who apparently died a few weeks before. I watched her rocking back and forth, not knowing what to say. I was trying to be quiet, but she must have heard me. She lifted her head and turned around.
	"What do you want?"
	I couldn't tell if she recognized me. "I'm the guy you asked to watch your roses."
	"What?—"
	"Your roses. Out front?" I said, trying to remind her. "I got arrested because of you."
	She gazed in consideration, then looked back down like she decided it wasn't worth the effort.
	"And?" She asked.
	"And, it made me late for my grandpa's funeral."
	Her face tensed for a moment, then her eyes glazed over. "Sucks man. At least you were invited."
	I felt the anger bubbling inside me again, so I looked around for something else to talk about.
	"My grandpa's name was Benjamin too."
	"Cool." She said sarcastically, then sniffled.
	"Is that why you're really here?"
	"No, I'm just crying on some random guy's grave for fun. Is that not a normal pastime for you?"
	"I was—I was asking because of the roses." I said, but a blank stare persisted on her face. "Never mind. I'm sorry for your loss."
	She looked back down at the grave, as if to say she wanted me to leave, but as usual I couldn't control my mouth.
	"Was he your grandpa?"
	"My dad." She corrected, with a dismissive tone.
	"Oh." I checked the dates again, surprised to learn his age. He seemed a little too old to be her father. "Why weren't you invited to his funeral?"
	"Why are you so nosy, man? Can you just leave me the fuck alone?"
	The burial was still going on under the black tent. They were lowering him into the ground now. Everyone was throwing their flowers onto the casket as it descended towards its final resting place.
	She noticed my staring, which apparently made her angry. "Are you fucking serious?"
	"What?"
	"Is that your grandpa's funeral?"
	"Yeah."
	"Then why the fuck aren't you over there? Not everyone has a family to grieve with, you know. Don't be an ungrateful ass."
	"Not everyone has a family that shames their children for all their fucks ups either, then holds it against them for the rest of their lives."
	"Well, you are ditching your grandfather's funeral to bother some random chick trying to grieve, so—"
	I'd been trying to keep my cool, but something about the way she said that just pushed me over the edge. "Fuck you. What do you know about abusive families?"
	She paused for a second like she was interrogating me without words. "No, yeah. Fuck me. You're right. I don't know anything. My father was just some old fucker who cheated on his wife because he and my mom were all horny for social justice together. So no, I don't know what it's like to have annoying cousins, or elders who call me out on my shit. All I got was a family I've never met, and a father who was too afraid to ever own up to his shit."
	I needed a second to take it all in, and stop myself from walking away. "Oh. That blows."
	And just like that, my anger subsided. I was never very good at staying mad at people when I knew why they were upset. Even if they were being as rude as she was. I just felt guilty for causing her more pain. And the truth was, I knew how she felt. I'd used pain to justify pushing so many people away, but her and I were more or less in the same boat. I apologized to her for interrupting her grieving, and we talked for a while about our shared anger for the world, which kind of helped in a weird way. I tried to explain how it felt to have a grandfather who was presented as flawless. And she tried to tell me what it was like to have no family except for a mother, who had been fighting for the love of a man who only saw her as his biggest mistake, all the way until his last day.
	"Did you ever meet him?" I asked.
	"Yeah. He showed up at my house a few times that I remember. But never stayed long."
	At some point I asked why she and her mom didn't go to the funeral anyway. "I would have crashed the damn thing." I told her.
	"My mom wouldn't tell me when the funeral was, or even his last name. She must have been beaten into complacency."
	"Did you try to find out? Or call his wife? I'm sure your mom had her number, right?"
	"I don't know man. I tried. I'm surprised I found him at all. I had to call every damn place in thirty miles trying to get them to give me information on new burials. The fuckers wouldn't answer any specific questions, so I had to make up some bullshit story about searching for a long lost relative, and ask if they had anyone named Ben being buried soon. But by the time I found him, he was already in the ground."
	"Damn." Would I have gone through all that just to find the grave of an old man I barely knew? Even if he was my biological father, I don't know. But I guess she wanted to feel like she was part of the family. "What would you have said if you could have been there?"
	She thought for a minute. "I don't know, probably tell his family the truth about how fucked up he really was? And how it felt to be tortured by the thought of a whole family I'd never known, with a mom who's so depressed that we've lost all the friends we ever had."
	"Holy shit. They didn't know?" I asked, shocked by the news. How would someone who was, according to her, well known in the community, keep a secret like that for so long?
	"Nope. You'd be surprised how many fucked up secrets most people are carrying around. You're lucky you at least know your shitty family hates you." At the thought, anger found her again. "If your life sucks, then stop complaining and do something about it. Get off your ass and be better or say fuck 'em and escape the toxic bullshit. But don't tell me it's worse than having the only thing you ever wanted hidden from you behind a veil of mysteries and lies, leaving you with just enough hope to drive you insane."
	A flock of dark shapes crossed my periphery. The casket was six feet under ground, and my family was making their way across the stone spotted grass. I took a moment for my grandfather, trying to push away the oncoming guilt for missing so much of his ceremony. Then it hit me what was next; they were headed to the event hall across the street, to celebrate his life. And I would have to speak.
	"What the hell am I going to say?" I mumbled to myself, feeling the pull to follow them. I didn't need another reason for my mom to be furious with me.
	"Don't look at me, I didn't know your grandpa."
	I almost got angry, but then noticed the pain in her eyes. "Well I should probably go, but, you can come if you want. You can… pretend like it's your father's service or something." I paused to let her respond, but the silence sucked more words out of me. "Unless that's weird. Is it weird?" I tried to wait again. "They probably won't notice you. Hell, it looked like they even forgot about me."
	I don't know why I invited her. She wasn't even that enjoyable to be around. But something in me wanted to keep talking to her. It was comforting in a weird, fucked up kind of way. Or maybe it just helped distract me from the speech I still hadn't prepared. I wanted nothing more than to avoid that speech, but I had already missed so much, I figured I shouldn't be completely useless and find some way to respect him. Even if it was with some half assed speech, surrounded by people who hated me.
	Slowly she lifted herself off the ground, and passively brushed at the mud on her pants. "Okay." She trudged past me and towards the entrance. "I'm Alice, by the way."
	We didn't talk much on the way there. She spent most of the time looking at her dirt caked shoes and soiled clothes. But in the silence I, for the first time, started to accept my grandpa's passing. Maybe it was because of Alice's story, or just that weird way that silence gets more comfortable when someone else is around. At least I had one family member who really loved me, which I guess was all you could reasonably ask for, even if he was gone now.
	When we got to the event hall, I peeked through the window. On the back wall was a small stage. My mom was standing behind the microphone, next to a giant poster of Grandpa Ben's face. The rest of the family was gathered in the middle of the room, or around the tables of food that lined the walls.
	I opened the door as quietly as I could, scared that my mom would notice me walking in with a random girl. I held the door for a moment, making sure to give Alice time to catch it. I didn't need to get everyone's attention again.
	SLAM.
	I jumped and whipped around. She was still on the other side, with her face up to the window. A tear welled up in her eye, and her cheeks deepened to the color of rich clay. Then I noticed the silence that had fallen after the slammed door. My mother was staring from above the sea of eyes, with open disdain. I stepped up to the crowd, and she thankfully started again. My cousins were standing off to the side, which probably meant I was next.
	My eyes got lost in the white walls and glaring lights. I was torn between continuing my futile search for a way to describe my beloved grandfather, and looking back to Alice for answers. Why didn't she follow me in? And what could have possibly made her start crying? I had no idea, but I had something more urgent I suppose.
	Every time I tried to conjure an original thought about Grandpa Ben, my mothers voice played in my head on loop. He's a good, honest man. You can only hope to be half the man he is one day. But I was not going to let myself repeat that idolizing, guilt tripping bullshit. Talking about him was like he was some kind of superior being—almost like there was something they were trying to hide.
	My mom stepped off stage, and my cousins took her place. She didn't waste any time before heading straight towards me. I braced for a firm speech or a stiff smack across the face, and prepared to bolt away if I needed to.
	"You're next." She said, then stormed away without pause.
	I don't remember ever seeing her like this. She was furious, but almost trying to control it.
	My cousins spewed the same bullshit I expected from the rest of my family, only more vague, bordering on flat out uninformed. I swear, you could have hired someone to improvise a speech more personal. It was all stuff like "he was such a great role model, with an abundance of knowledge and wisdom," "I wish I could have gotten to know him better, and appreciate his struggles and achievements more deeply." Or "I look forward to meeting him in heaven one day—God willing—and hearing the story of his life in his own inspiring words."
	The applause dropped silent as I walked on stage—good to know nobody else had high expectations for me either. I searched the crowd staring up at me, again for a friendly face. I flinched when my eyes met my mothers, and I quickly looked up towards the door where Alice still stood, nose squished against the glass. Her tears flowed steady, glimmering as they welled up and followed the creases of her cheeks. She was staring towards the stage, but not at me.
	I looked over at the poster of Grandpa Ben—his face glowing larger than life. For the first time I noticed a pain behind his eyes too. I looked back to Alice, and our eyes met. Her expression intensified in what looked like cathartic sorrow, and as if with fondness for me, that I was confused by at the time. She was trying to mouth something to me, but I couldn't read her words.
	Murmurs sprinkled through the crowd and I remembered why I was standing there. I was more than a little humiliated now. My face was warm and my eyes started collecting tears. I could feel everything and nothing all at once. Then the words just came to me, but this time it wasn't from anger.
	"We all knew Grandpa Ben the same way the public did, for his life of fighting for social justice. But if today has taught me anything, it's that what you think you know about a person is always only part of the story. I thought highly of my grandfather, as I know you all did, and loved to remind us of."
	I paused, half hoping they'd find it in them to laugh. Surprise, surprise, it only made them more tense.
	"He helped me in more ways than I can count, without ever being as punishing as most of you were. But in trying to figure out what to say today, I realized I never thought about what drove him. The pain he used as fuel that kept him burning so strong, and for so many years. I think to try as hard as he did to make the world a better place, you have to believe that the world is broken, in a way. So broken that you, with your single flawed human life, believe you have a chance of making it better.
	"I know most, if not all of you, don't like me very much. Maybe you're even ashamed to call me family, but Grandpa Ben didn't see me that way. I used to think it was because he was such a great person—thanks to the stories I heard nonstop from all of you my entire life. But I was wrong. I think it was because he knew what it was like to feel deep shame." My cousins snickered and a few of my aunts and uncles started to look increasingly uneasy. My Uncle Jimmie grabbed my mother's arm and took her to the side. Alice cracked the door open and stuck in an ear.
	I took a deep breath and the words kept flowing. "I think after today, when I look back on his life, what I'll think about most is that behind his great achievements, and his larger than life presence, he was, above all, human. I'll try to remember that he was deeply flawed, maybe even as flawed as me." I put the microphone back in the stand. "And I hope you remember that too."
	I bolted off stage as fast as I could when I realized my family's discomfort had turned to anger—like I had provoked a mob. I looked up and Alice was gone. My mother grabbed at my arm as I shoved my way to the door, followed closely by my uncle. From beneath the waves of emotion that threatened to drown me, I heard my family's startled sounds, and my mother screaming things like "that's not how I raised you," and "how dare you."
	I managed to evade her grasp, and made it to the door. I threw myself at it without slowing down, and felt a bruise forming on my side—it was heavier than I expected. When I made it outside I scanned around for Alice, then the door flew open again behind me. Just as it did, my uncle caught up to my mom, grabbing her in his arms, and pulled her back inside.
	I circled the building looking for Alice, but didn't see her anywhere. Across the street her roses were still outside the gate, though the box had been crushed and the bouquets were scattered across the ground. I crossed the street and picked up the last rose that hadn't been stepped on, and went through the darkened gates.
	I passed the funeral home and took a left this time, towards the newly piled dirt that bulged from the ground, and the girl who was sitting with her head buried in her arms. I kneeled beside her and placed the roses where his headstone would eventually be.
	She didn't acknowledge me, but I didn't mind because, as it turns out, I hadn't lost the last relative who understood me after all.
